From The New York Times, I'm Michael
[music] Barbaro. This is The Daily.
>> [music]
>> On Monday, the AI giant Anthropic filed
paperwork to [music] go public,
turbocharging a coming wave of
blockbuster IPOs
>> [music]
>> that could mint the world's first
trillionaire and remake American
capitalism.
>> [music]
>> The first of those IPOs will be Elon
Musk's SpaceX, set to begin [music]
selling shares as soon as next week.
Today,
business reporter Ryan Mac takes us
>> [music]
>> inside the plan for SpaceX's
record-shattering debut on the stock
market and explains [music] how it's
already changing the rules for investing
in ways that mean its success or failure
will affect all of us.
>> [music]
[music]
>> It's
>> [music]
>> Tuesday, June 2nd.
Ryan,
welcome to the show.
>> Hey Michael, thanks for having me.
>> My pleasure.
A confession here, it's very rare for
The Daily to cover an IPO and that's
because it's pretty rare that an IPO
generates a level of interest and
excitement and worry that the one we're
going to talk to you
about today does. So,
my first question to you is why does
this initial public offering of SpaceX
matter so much and feel so monumental to
so many people?
>> I think it has everything to do with
Elon Musk, SpaceX's founder and CEO.
And like everything with Elon Musk, this
IPO is singular. It's likely going to be
the largest of all time, raising
anywhere from 50 to 75 billion dollars.
It's going to value this company likely
at more than a 1.25 trillion dollars.
>> Wow.
>> And it could make Elon Musk, already the
richest man in the world, already one of
the most powerful people in the world,
the world's first trillionaire.
>> Mhm.
>> And this opportunity to invest in this
kind of one-of-a-kind company,
I think that excites a lot of people.
It is a rocket manufacturer.
It launches things into space for the
government and for private companies.
And it's also got this artificial
intelligence bent to it as well.
And what you're going to see in this IPO
is a large involvement of retail or
mom-and-pop investors who are excited
to invest in a company they see as run
by a generational entrepreneur.
>> Mhm.
Well, why is Musk trying to raise this
money right now and through the method
of an IPO? You don't have to make a
company public to raise a lot of money.
There are all kinds of ways to raise
money.
>> You don't have to take it public, but
this company has been private for more
than 20 years. It was founded in 2002,
and it's raised a lot of money already
on the private markets, from venture
capitalists, from private equity funds.
So, as a company, you kind of get one
shot to do this in your lifetime, to
raise money
on the public market for the first time.
>> [music]
>> And so, Elon Musk sees this as his
opportunity to do that, [music] and to
raise these tens of billions of dollars
to fund a lot of the goals that SpaceX
has for the next 10, 20, 30 years.
>> You must have solar-powered AI
satellites in in deep space. So,
yeah, this is where it's kind of handy
to have a space company, I guess. Um
>> I'm talking about visions to launch data
centers into space for AI.
>> You can mine the silicon on the moon,
refine it, and and create these solar
panels or the solar cells and the
radiators.
>> I'm talking about landing humans on the
moon and building factories [music]
to do mining.
>> We are going to
be able to take astronauts uh to Mars,
and ultimately build a self-sustaining
civilization on Mars. That is the
long-term goal of the company.
>> Ultimately, he's talked about making
humans multi-planetary, getting them to
Mars, and making [music] us a species
that exists on more than one planet.
>> It is very important, essential, that
over the long term that we become a
multi-planet species [music] and
ultimately even go beyond the solar
system and bring life with us.
>> Right, those are very modest goals.
>> [laughter]
>> Yes, very modest goals.
>> And it sounds like you're saying that
those kinds of literally otherworldly
business goals
require the kind of money that you
cannot just go to Wells Fargo
and get from the bank.
>> Yeah, I'm sure that Elon is not
necessarily going under his couch
cushions and scrounging for for change
here. We are talking about huge,
[snorts]
vast sums of money
that don't come around very often.
Bear in mind as well that we have these
other companies also trying to raise
money. I'm talking about OpenAI and
Anthropic as well
>> Right.
>> that are looking to go public and raise
also tens of billions of dollars. And
so, there's kind of this element of who
can get out fastest and, you know, raise
money from the investor cuz there's only
so much money out there to raise.
>> Right. And so far, Musk will be first.
>> He will. He will. And it's now a
question of convincing the investors
that SpaceX, which has now a large AI
component to it, is indeed a better bet
than, let's say, Anthropic or OpenAI.
>> You describe this as a chance for mom
and pop investors to become a part of
this IPO. That's not the way I typically
think
of a company going public. I think of
big banks like Morgan Stanley or Goldman
Sachs, not you and me and our moms and
dads.
>> So, these mom and pop investors,
something the industry likes to call
retail investors,
get an opportunity to invest here
through their brokerage accounts like
Charles Schwab or Robinhood. Typically,
you get 5 to 10% of shares in an IPO
reserved for retail.
There's discussion now of about 30%
being allotted to retail.
>> So, three times more.
>> Threefold. And why is Musk making this
stock so much more available than normal
to your regular retail investor than
most companies that are
going public?
>> I think it's just the sheer size of this
thing.
It's going to need investors beyond your
traditional banks and funds
that typically put their money into
IPOs. And
it's also going to need a hefty base of
investors to continue believing in this
company and holding its shares. And so,
Elon Musk over the years has been pretty
brilliant in his strategy of courting
the everyday person. And he's building
on that to attract retail investors here
and build this hype. You know, he is
always on Twitter, for example, on X
these days, tweeting
>> [snorts]
>> and building essentially a community of
people, of fans,
of folks that are just interested in his
companies and in him. And he wants to
give those people an opportunity to
invest.
>> Hm.
>> Because once this thing IPOs, it's going
to need shareholders to sustain it and
to own it and to continue investing in
it.
>> God, basically Elon Musk needs regular
investors for this to work.
>> Correct. But even if you don't want to
own SpaceX shares or if you avoid this
IPO,
you may essentially end up owning a part
of SpaceX indirectly.
>> And how is that? Why would that be?
>> So, like many Americans, you know, you
and I have investments in retirement
funds. And
you know, these retirement funds are
often invested in index funds,
which are a collection of companies and
stocks
that are meant to mirror American
industry. So, for example, the Nasdaq
100 is a collection of 100 companies uh
and their stocks trade publicly.
And so, you may own a chunk of the
Nasdaq 100.
>> Right.
>> The Nasdaq 100 is relaxing its rules to
allow for SpaceX to enter the index a
lot more quickly than in the past.
>> Hm.
>> Typically, what happens is that when a
company goes public,
its stock needs about 3 months on the
public market for a cooling-off period.
And that's because there's fluctuations
in stock prices. You kind of want to see
where investors
settle out with the stock, you know, if
it goes up or down.
And after that 3 months, typically, you
get the thumbs up and you get to enter
the index.
What's happening here instead is that
after just 15 days of trading with
SpaceX, so 15 days after the IPO,
SpaceX will be added to the Nasdaq 100
and essentially force the funds that
trade off the Nasdaq 100 to buy shares
of the company to mirror essentially
what's in the index.
What that does for SpaceX is that it
gives the company way more money and way
more investors to work with.
>> Mhm.
>> So, you you're essentially getting
access to billions of dollars that you
wouldn't necessarily have access to and,
you know, shareholders that are already
going to own your stock because of this
index opportunity.
>> This is kind of fascinating. Why are
these indexes relaxing, changing,
making more elastic their rules for
SpaceX? Is that their own decision or is
that at the urging of Musk and SpaceX?
>> That's a great question. I think it's a
bit of both. For Musk and SpaceX,
they get access to a lot of capital,
billions of dollars worth,
that they wouldn't have had access to
without these rule changes or they would
have had to wait much longer to get
access to that.
For the indexes, there is
a fear of missing out here, a FOMO that,
you know, they could be missing out on
these potential gains for their
investors in this kind of
once-in-a-lifetime IPO. And that has
frightened a lot of experts. You know, I
I talked to one, for example, who said,
"It's like creating rules for football
and right before you get to the Super
Bowl,
you throw some of those rules out the
window."
>> Mhm.
>> You know, you've created these rules of
the road here that have simply been
eliminated at this kind of monumental
event.
>> Well, it's interesting, right? On one
level, being invested in something that
you don't anticipate or necessarily
desire being invested in
feels risky, just inherently. On the
other hand,
if this IPO is a huge financial success,
then lots of people will be benefiting
from it more rapidly than they would
have in the past. That makes me think
about Google's IPO. We all wish we had
been invested in Google
when it went public. I think it was up
something like 80% in its first 6 months
on the market, probably wasn't on these
indexes either. Perhaps we wish it had
been. And in this case, SpaceX will be,
which could be a boon.
>> I think when numbers go up, everyone is
happy. You know, everyone gets to
celebrate and, you know,
take part in the win, but there's no
guarantee that this necessarily goes up.
And what happens if shares start to fall
after the first couple days of trading?
You know, you mentioned Google there,
but I think of something like Facebook
when it went public and the trials and
tribulations it faced, you know, its
stock went down shortly thereafter. Of
course, it's gone up many times over
since that time, but in those first
early days of trading,
there were a lot of questions. If SpaceX
doesn't hit its milestones or some of
these very pie-in-the-sky goals that
Elon Musk has set out for the company,
you may have a lot of investors asking,
"Why was this allowed? Why am I holding
this stock? Why was it in these indexes
to begin with?"
>> So, quite clearly, the story of this IPO
so far is how clearly
it's seeking to put this stock, put a
piece of SpaceX into the hands of a lot
of regular people.
And that, of course,
means that if this is a
great IPO, the upside for lots and lots
of people is going to be unusually
spread out, but if it goes south and is
bad, then the pain is going to be felt
by a lot larger group of people than
normal.
>> Right. When you think about that, you
have to think about what kind of
business is essentially holding up those
valuations. With an IPO, every company
has to file what's called an S-1 to
disclose their financial health and
their projections for the future.
And so I've been covering Elon Musk for
many years now. This is the first time
I've been able to see the full picture
of what's going on at SpaceX.
And after spending a couple days with
this document, which is 277 pages, I and
many others just have a lot of questions
as to whether or not the business that
we're seeing here, the numbers that it's
putting up, can justify these
trillion-dollar valuations that people
will be investing in.
>> [music]
>> We'll be right back.
So Ryan, now that you have spent time
with this nearly 300-page document and
you've peeked behind the curtain of
SpaceX's actual business,
how healthy a business have you
concluded that it is or isn't as
everyone is deciding whether or not to
participate in its IPO?
>> I think the answer to that is that it's
quite complicated. There are some
positives about this business and there
are a lot of question marks or negatives
about this business as well.
>> All right, we'll start with the
positive.
>> Sure. So let's start with the crown
jewel of the company, which right now
appears to be Starlink.
This is the company's satellite internet
service. The company has launched these
satellites that circle the Earth and the
satellites beam down internet service to
people on the ground. It's now racked up
about 10 million users
>> Wow.
>> and about 4.4 billion dollars in profit
last year.
>> Wow, that's enormous. I mean, that's a
very healthy business.
>> And that's because the company dominates
the launch business. That was
essentially the business that SpaceX was
founded on, this idea that it could
privatize rocket launchers essentially
that were owned by NASA and the
government at the time.
And that bet has paid off well. You
know, the company now dominates that
market.
There are estimates that it does more
than 85% of all mass into orbit from
Earth is through a SpaceX rocket. And
from that it's been able to build up
Starlink as well. And so you get this
kind of very healthy business off those
two things.
>> Okay, and where are the question marks
serious risks?
>> So the question marks are stemming from
the company's investment into AI.
Earlier this year you had SpaceX merge
with Elon Musk's AI company xAI. And at
the time Musk justified it as the
convergence of synergies. He saw the
future of AI taking part in space. And
that's because he believes that
these AI data centers which take up a
lot of land and resources on Earth
should be put into orbit where they'll
have easier access to energy,
they'll be closer to the sun, and where
they won't take up as many resources as
they would on Earth.
>> Basically data centers in the sky.
>> Data centers in the sky circling the
Earth. You know, that was the vision for
this merger. And bolting on that AI
company onto this successful space
company has caused financial strain. The
company's capital expenditures doubled
to $20.7 billion
in 2024.
In 2025 it recorded a $4.3 billion loss
across its whole business.
>> Mhm.
>> And that has put a financial strain on
SpaceX's IPO documents.
>> Okay, so basically AI is costing SpaceX
so much money that when you look at the
overall bottom line, including the
profitability of Starlink,
SpaceX is losing
money somehow.
>> Correct. And I should say that there are
other factors beyond AI. It's incredibly
expensive to build these rockets. The
company's also looking to build
something called Starship, which is the
rocket they believe will bring people to
Mars.
>> Mhm.
>> But AI right now is the millstone around
the company's neck.
>> Right. I mean, a company that's 20 years
old losing money over a full year
makes it hard, at least for me, to
understand how you get to an overall
valuation of 1.25
trillion dollars. There are several
companies in our economy that are valued
at a trillion dollars, but they are
hugely profitable, like thinking of
Nvidia
or Microsoft.
So, how does SpaceX get to that number?
>> Well, it's saying
it's going to do all these things in the
future. It's going to put data centers
into space.
It's going to build factories on the
moon.
It's going to land people on Mars. And
essentially what investors are betting
on is not the current fundamentals of
the company, but you're betting on the
future.
>> Right. And the future that he's
promising sounds extraordinary, but I
wonder how, if you're a mom-and-pop
investor, literally if you're my mom or
my dad, how are you supposed to judge
whether buying into this IPO through
Charles Schwab or an index fund actually
makes sense if that valuation feels
realistic.
>> And that's where I think the evaluation
of this company as like a traditional
stock goes out the window.
>> Mhm.
>> You know, you're not doing your
traditional analyses of shares or
financials here.
A lot of this is is simply hype. And I I
say that looking at a number that the
company put out in their own document,
something called total addressable
market.
>> Okay.
>> This is the market that the company
projects it will be able to attain in
the future.
And it estimated in its own financial
documents that its total addressable
market
is the largest ever in human history and
that it estimates it to be $28.5
trillion.
>> Wow. Put that number in a context.
>> I don't know if I can. I mean, it's so
massive. It it's
it's close to US GDP, I believe.
>> Wow.
>> And the company's telling investors that
if you invest in us, we may become a
company that controls a market that is
$28.5 trillion.
>> All right, that basically does the kind
of commerce that the entirety of the
United States economy does, someday.
>> Yeah, someday. And that is AI and
rockets to space and Starlink and all
that is $28.5 trillion.
That's the type of hype that Elon Musk
is able to sell and I think people buy
into that largely because he's been
successful in the past. You look at, you
know, his net worth, for example,
which can fluctuate anywhere from 600 to
800 billion dollars these days.
And you might see that and be like,
"Wow, this man's been very successful
and he's telling me he's going to hit
these trillion dollars in
total addressable market. Let me put my
faith into him and let me let me bet on
him because he seems to be going
places."
>> Well, let me put that proposition to the
test.
Elon Musk's track record in the past,
quickly summarize it. We have a couple
of examples to play with. Obviously, we
have Tesla. We also have X, formerly
known as Twitter.
>> So, let's take Tesla. He took the
company public and the company has
mainstreamed electric cars around the
world.
It has been wildly successful from a
stock price perspective. It's made folks
a lot of money and it continues to be a
a strong public company from a stock
price perspective.
>> Right. And so have investors. I mean, I
think I was looking up before we spoke
that if you invested a thousand dollars
in Tesla at its initial public offering,
you'd have something like a quarter
million dollars today. That is a hell of
a return.
>> And I think that's, you know, part of
the appeal of Musk and the part of the
appeal of
so much of this hype around him. But
also, I covered his acquisition of
Twitter back in 2022, which was not
>> not as much of a success.
>> No.
>> [snorts]
>> You know, he bought that company at 44
billion dollars.
At one point, the valuation of the
company as marked down by it some of his
investors was down to 10 billion
dollars.
But he was able to rescue that company
by merging it with at the time his AI
company XAI.
>> Mhm.
>> And so, even though that company has not
been a financial success, he's been able
to bury that with in his AI company,
which
on paper was quite the success in terms
of raising money.
>> Right, which I guess does point to the
fact that
risk isn't even normal risk with someone
like Elon Musk because he's able to use
one arm of his business to in this case
rescue another. And if you're someone
who invested in X, are you doing okay
now?
>> You are because if you were an investor
in his Twitter takeover,
you now presumably hold SpaceX shares.
So, you're doing quite well for
yourself.
>> Mhm.
>> And so, you think about risk and you
think about accountability for someone
like Elon Musk and the rules of the game
are just completely different.
>> Mhm. Just explain why you're raising the
issue of accountability here for SpaceX
and Musk.
>> Because with most public companies,
public CEOs are accountable to their
shareholders.
These shareholders have votes.
And if a company doesn't do well, they
can vote against their CEO or pressure
the board to take action against CEO.
Or in some cases file shareholder
lawsuits if they believe something
untoward has been done
by the CEO or other executives.
>> Right. Or if for example, the company's
valuation no longer bears any
resemblance to what shareholders were
promised.
>> Right. And what Elon Musk has done in
this case at SpaceX is remove a lot of
the levers for accountability.
I look at the amount of power he has in
the company. He has instituted what we
call super voting shares where the
shares he holds
have in this case 10 to one
votes compared to your average share.
He has almost 85% of the voting control
in the company. You know, he has this
incredible supermajority
where he essentially has unchallenged
power. He controls the board.
He has appointed friends and associates
to the board.
And essentially he gets to rule the
company without any challenge.
>> There's no way for shareholders to
essentially stage any kind of revolt or
intervention, even if the company's
performance is quite bad.
>> Right. You're kind of with Elon up or
down.
>> The accountability issues you're raising
in particular, I think, bring us back to
this inevitable question
of Musk and how SpaceX, as you said, is
really an investment in him, his vision,
his judgments, his past track record.
And while that track record suggests
that in general you're going to win if
you invest with Musk,
the past few years have raised, you
know, meaningful questions about his
conduct. He went off to go try to reduce
government spending under the second
term of President Trump through DOJ and
that failed and Musk got really
distracted from Tesla especially right
and at the same time he got into a huge
fight with Trump that almost resulted in
Trump threatening his contracts through
SpaceX as I recall it. There's also
questions about his use of drugs raised
in reporting by our colleagues here at
the times. So this is not a traditional
CEO which is part of the allure but it's
also clearly part of the risk and from
what you're saying none of the normal
accountability mechanisms are in place
if he starts to go off the rails. So how
should we think about that as a risk in
this all?
>> I mean that should be the top line risk
for anyone thinking of investing in any
of his companies that Elon Musk is a
singular figure
good or bad and I think that is
something I think about a lot. This
individual who has that much power that
much wealth who is essentially
unaccountable here.
>> Mhm.
>> And he's unaccountable because of that
wealth.
And so when you think about the SpaceX
IPO and the potential for what it can do
to his net worth to potentially make him
a trillionaire this could give him even
more power.
>> Right. And I guess the way to think
about this IPO is that one way or
another we're even more bound up with
Musk's success or failure than we have
ever been before. I mean
if he goes up with this IPO we all go up
with him for all the reasons we talked
about including especially the index
funds and if he goes down a ton we all
go down with him. We are all tied to
Musk whether we want to be or not,
and that's just the story right now of
the economy he's created.
>> Yeah, there's really no way off the
rocket ship. And I think there's an
argument to be made that this IPO could
go well. It could make a lot of money
for folks.
And in the short term, it could sustain
on this hype alone.
But in the long term, this is now going
to be a public company.
>> [music]
>> It's going to have financial results
it's going to disclose. It's going to
have quarterly earnings calls with
investors. And it's going to need to
show progress towards these very lofty
goals that people have already invested
in.
>> Right.
>> Whether that's putting data centers in
the space or getting people to Mars. And
if the company and Elon Musk doesn't
show that progress, investors may start
to get antsy.
>> [music]
>> And while he is largely unaccountable,
investors do have one main way to show
their displeasure,
which is to sell the stock.
>> Mhm.
>> And if that's the case, you know, there
will be potentially a reckoning for
SpaceX and for Elon Musk.
And this rocket ship that SpaceX has
taken off on, that we're all aboard,
could come crashing back down to Earth.
>> [music]
>> Orion,
thank you very much. I appreciate that.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> We'll be right back.
>> Here's what else you need to nerd
[music] out today.
The Times reports that Defense Secretary
Pete Hegseth has intervened to block the
promotion of top officials inside the US
Navy. [music]
An unusual move that disproportionately
targets women and minority officers.
>> [music]
>> At least two of the officers removed by
Hagseth from the promotion list are
black men.
>> [music]
>> And two others are women.
As a result, new female officers were
included on the new list of one-star
[music] officers, despite the fact that
women make up 21%
[music] of the active-duty Navy.
And
the White House sent [music] signals on
Monday that it was backing away from a
planned fund to compensate victims of
government weaponization.
>> [music]
>> The Justice Department said it would
abide by a federal court ruling from
last week, [music] directing it not to
work on setting up the fund.
That's leading [music] some to conclude
that the White House is retreating from
the idea amid intense blowback from
courts and Congress, [music]
including congressional Republicans.
Today's [music] episode was produced by
Ricky Nokesky, Jack D'Isidoro, and
Rochelle Banja.
It was [music] edited by Brendan
Klinkenberg and Annie Mennof.
And contains [music] music by Marion
Lozano and Diane Wong.
Our theme music is by Wonderly.
This episode [music] was engineered by
Alyssa Moxley.
>> [music]
>> That's it for the day.
I'm Michael [music] Barbaro.
See you tomorrow.